welcome to GUI and in web browsers slash
browsers and connectivity special
interest group for 23rd of January 2020
it said Edition with a twist
so I'll just say that and that the trick
to provide a context what you yeah sure
so you know as I think the blog post is
coming out and the pr2 the the repo is
in progress but there's a little
switcheroos in how we structure the
working groups the first half of 2020 to
be able to a meet some of the
longer-term bills that we have as a as a
project and how this affects the
browsers and GUI work is really really
important we've kind of decided that
we've had a long long you know one of
the barriers that we've had in this
browsers group is that connectivity has
been a problem we did a kind of review
in November of a part of the browser
Easter and we stuck ranked all of the
open issues and all of the needs that we
had it all the way down to like like
full native browser limitation it really
could have like both blue sky stuff and
practical stuff and then we then we went
through each item and and and I analyzed
each one in the context of the others in
the list and all the top priority is
outside of CID v1 were around
connectivity for on solving things like
how do we how do we get to a world where
we're if two browsers are running they
both have some level of ipfs support how
can they communicate directly to each
other and then start layering up
connectivity out from there and this
comes down to better levels of better
basically more alignment with what the
what the J is the p2p team at least in
the short term what they're implementing
how they're loaning it and what options
they give us when IP adresses running
either in a HTTP based web page running
in a web browser extension with or
without superpowers like Devon brave
running in an IP FS based web page if
that's the thing that is
well this year and also when it's
running in an OGS on a server or local
TV so we have these multiple different
at least four different operating
contexts for GOP fests each one has
different connectivity capabilities and
also challenges but we want to be able
to tell you like the the broadest
opportunity from a deployment standpoint
there is it is I think that's running
inside HTTP web pages for now so making
the most of the connectivity options we
have there things like expanding thing
to DHT to webparts you see connections
and things like that it's really really
important so this alignment of what the
browser's group is doing and what the
limb PP group is doing in the JSP at
land is extremely important
strategically for us to be able to set
up a BFS that works for we're developers
are today one of the keys that
differentiations that I make when I
think about the strategy is the
difference we talk a lot about adoption
I kinda we how do we increase the
adoption of might be FS that we get more
people's hands I'm gonna make it easier
developer workflows it's like that but a
distinction that I want to make is is
that adoption is really predicated upon
availability upon the idea that that
ipfs is actually there to be about it
and for I confess to be a available in
that sense than that distinction for web
developers we're developing right
traditional web sites for even d web
developers who are developing gaps and
for browser vendors who are considering
implementation in native integration we
need to having a very clear availability
story where in what contexts that I just
described as as I profess available what
are the one of the features that it
brings in those contexts and what are
the constraints that it hits and be able
to communicate that so they can make
decisions around whether it's available
for them and if it is then they can then
they can actually start start to adopt
it so this is kind of thinking around
how I look at the prioritization
decisions that we need to make when it
comes to browser connectivity I'd really
encourage you as a group to really start
thinking about the changes in terms of
really specific deployment channels
where's the operating context of of ipfs
most important and what connected
challenges exist in that operating
context if it's ipfs running gsfs
running in an HTTP web page HP web app
it's best that the where we're gonna get
the most bang for the buck in terms of
making meeting developers needs today to
be able to get them on that great path
to a decentralized web then we should be
prioritizing the connectivity needs of
operating in that context as opposed to
say no js' demons or I profess Jessica's
running in in a web extension context so
thinking about things in terms of
operating context and then making
decisions based on how and that affects
the availability and adoption efforts of
browser as a whole as a broader
deployment in so that's kind of like
just the four minute summary of how I've
been thinking about these things and
really it's a product of Lydell and I
having these meetings and talking about
this stuff you know week after week
after week after week after week since I
since I joined trying to figure out how
these bigger pieces are and how we live
them around and learn to be able to get
the most leverage we can and getting
I'll give us into web browsers in all
the various ones I can take and and from
that hopefully that gives some context
for you all as you're operating with a a
you know with Lydell with a one-foot in
browser land and one foot in chase I
profess Landon and Jacob and and Bosh go
with like a whole lot of a slim p2p
experience and and how you're gonna
operate under the looking towards Jason
give us and how it runs a where it needs
to run be able to decide what the most
important thing to do is
that make sense or is that total crazy
damn it's a very good summary of where
we are and why we are like joining
forces together in this like overlap
between ipfs and the p2p I think it may
be useful to kind of like understand the
current state I'm not sure who created
those like three Alec questions but I
found find those super super useful way
of looking at them Jacobs like if you if
you want to go up about current state or
should I like go over at the point I've
had it and then you can add your maybe
yeah if since you added those sub points
if you want to go go just like don't
park my unpacked where my mind is right
like right now so browsers and
connectivity as a special interest group
between ipfs only p2p
[Music]
doing this like summary of where we are
right now when it comes to the stage of
it it's really fast between back J's
ipfs and jelly p2p often when I say like
just ipfs I really mean just lippy too
because it's just that's what
effectively takes care of connectivity
and I just happy first but like not
everyone watching this video like
joining the community has community may
be aware of that so that T like the
highlights of the current stage in my
mind is that like the entry points are
good stuff notes those bootstrap notes
are listening on WebSockets right now
I'm pretty sure we always dial the same
bootstrap node every time our Chesley
p2p note starts and that's sort of like
the first thing like maybe not like
personally but often like when I had
like discussions conferences and and
people approaching me on IRC another
channel that's what's always like the
first letter a red flag for people like
that we always dial those notes those
the same notes like a single point of
trailer at the entry and we don't
remember when we like discover other
peers on the network mmm other like
notes that are capable of WebSockets or
other transports that we have in web
browser we still don't like store them
and reuse them later we if you like
close the tab you shut down J's idea
first process and then you open it again
everything starts again so that's like
the one thing kind of related to
connectivity because like if we like
persist peers we may be like more robust
against like censorship but also against
like network failures when cells of our
bootstrap nodes or something this
configuration happen you don't fail to
boot your note it would work and then
there's a problem space related to the
fact that we don't have the HT in in Jas
and that means what do we do for
discovery so right now basically
everyone that's using clique
Jess idea that maybe I was I profess
that everyone using this idea files in
like web browser context mainly the
context of regular web pages they you
either use our default or around their
own WebSocket server which provides both
like discovery but also like relay and
then we got this delegated routing which
works but it's like if I'm like I've set
it up in brave but brace is a special
context when we are able to establish
TCP connections so there it makes sense
the problem in web browser context is
even if we like enable delegated routing
and someone Alec runs their own server
for that the problem is like everyone on
DHT is listening on TCP and nearly
nobody is listening on WebSockets and
the problem mean if web browser context
is that like most of people will run J's
ipfs all our lectures only p2p on
insecure context which means that secure
context will only be able to connect to
like WebSocket port that's encrypted
that requires establishing clearly TLS
certificate and that's not something
like FS or J said if I suppose out of
the box which means you got this
additional configuration overhead into
setup and connection so reverse proxy in
front of that set of certificates and
stuff like that and also like we also
did not wire all the config options in
go HFS but that's like a minor detail
the biggest problem is this
configuration overhead so that's why I
like delegated to things like it works
it works in brave right now the problem
is like what what announced in the HD
like how useful those records are and
then there's the last leg often like in
my mind it's like WebRTC or like the
fact that we are actually not using it
today it's disabled by default
historically it was like just crashing
browsers I did some tests later
we've had some discussions with browser
vendors so it moved from the crushing
quiz at few connections now you can have
like 50 or maybe more probably more
today but still users had some users
been reporting the some user reports
about like different numbers of
connections different use cases and at
which point it there was always a point
when something crashed so Weber this is
the current implementation of our web
RTC transports mainly like WebRTC star I
believe those are disabled by default
some people had success I believe like
gosh what was the name of the video
streaming service they tweaked I
remembered I think they forked I will
transport the tweaked like either like
the data data stream like chunk size or
something and they reported some success
I linked like the issue with some those
reports but anyway it's just like me and
this this is an area where I feel like
it's the crashing is that the problem
necessarily crashes always probably
browsers are also well used to that and
they want to know more when things are
crashing so that I think there's two
things here that are really important is
one identifying the right configuration
that doesn't crash like if we if you
need to reduce our connection count and
cap it at a non crashing state testable
crossover great but the other half of
that is actually building our
relationships with browser vendors such
that our input and our minimized test
cases are into their product development
cycle and the engineering decision
making so we can start to affect their
their their decisions based on what our
needs are not something we can do yep
yep so that's like for we are not using
web RTC by default but there are like
options just to quickly close up and we
got like basically with like WebRTC
requires some sort of a signaling so we
got the WebRTC star which is using
WebSockets WebSockets for signaling and
after you exchange those
session information then establish
peer-to-peer or there is like variant
WebRTC direct both for go and Jas and
that variant is using HTTP just like
regular HTTP endpoint for signaling and
then the connection established so like
we got some transport we some people are
like using for specific use cases but we
don't use web RTC it's not enabled by
default Jacob if I miss something or
miss Carteret yeah no it's that's
accurate however with the p2p refactor
and the JSI PFS refactor WebRTC star
will be enabled by default for the
browser I think that the only issue
there is we still need to relaunch some
web RTC star servers will be shutting
down like what socket star is going away
because there were a lot of issues
migrating that refactoring that because
of socket IO but we didn't have to do
those things for whatever TC star so
it's going to take the place of web
sockets are so we'll be looking at
taking some of the web sockets to our
servers that we host and then changing
those over to WebRTC star so we will
have that and then yeah that's that's a
good rundown of the current state and a
lot of the things you went over are
things that I have listed solutions in
my backlog for that I want to tackle
this year so that is as good I really
like the idea of like I think I put a
question mark about like look improving
star situation and I feel what you just
said like switching to WebRTC it will
like make stuff better given that we
would no longer push bytes through that
like real life like all the bytes we
would just like use that for signaling
so that's like a step in the right
direction
what are the
like the major issues either the p2p or
ipfs users face today in our browser
context I like I listed lack of HD which
I mentioned before the another common
problem on forums etc so and going over
and over was like a lot of stuff
requires manual configuration like hard
coding specific servers that also
implies like semi centralization which
means you either use like most of people
when they start playing we'll use the
default bootstrap servers or WebSockets
our servers which are listed like just
for demos everyone is using them and
it's like either like optical
documentation or too many steps like too
many services to setup like bootstrap
servers WebSocket stars preload and then
delegate those are like four things
which probably could be just one thing
and then in this is specific to JSI DFS
is the problem of data preload it's sort
of like a like in the p2p we got the
doors like delegated through things so
like data preload is like delegating
caching of the data you just added to
your local J's at the first node so it's
basically like asking every time you add
something to your local repo there's
also like HTTP requests to some remote
API to that remote node hey please fetch
that from me in case I disappear and so
that's like when you upload something to
write DFS in your website or running or
in the using a node to run on a web page
and you close your laptop in theory if
you get it enough time that data it's
still available to other peers because
it's cached in on that like remote node
data preload it's like specific feature
of GSI DFS it's not in go it's just like
in J's idea first and was added
specifically for this browser
context
and basically I always think we will
collapse even like a partial solution to
this like too many things to configure
we will probably collapse a delegate
nodes and preload nodes those will be
like wanting we'll probably just call
them delegate because we haddock with
keep adding stuff and we probably should
click start managing them together take
up the fear from the likely p2p site or
maybe some of your users other like any
other like pain points we did not leave
you
yeah I think you touched on like one of
the biggest pain points I think with
Libby to be is really like the manual
configuration like configuring we bidipi
is painful for people with a refactor
we've like added a configuration guide
but I still think for most people that's
that's a large overhead so I think
something that we may look at trying to
do this year is actually like we have in
GSI BFS we've got like the you know
runtime files and these are like the
pre-configured things but then there's
like JSF EFS has like a bunch of
different because it's run in so many
contexts it has like multiple ways to
configure Lib p2p and it's like a
nightmare to look at but I think going
through from a little peepee standpoint
we can at least hey here are like pre
bundled the p2p like based on we talked
about what are these contexts that
people are going to be running with p2p
in and we can pre bundle that for them
so they don't have to worry about it
they can just like import Lib p2p for
their specific context and then get up
and running and at least yep we may have
some of those things like the semi
centralization pre-configure because we
need to but if we have if we're
persisting peer stores and things like
that while on subsequent startups we
should be able to reduce our dependency
on those semi centralized servers the
longer our nodes are running
that progressive kind of progressive
enhancement of connection state approach
I think it reflects that the pragmatic
view most people a decentralization is a
is if not a goal at all a far far lower
tiered goal for them and that by getting
people in the door using the tools and
approaches they're most familiar with we
can then expand that kind of like
initial foothold that we get and slowly
migrate people over to thinking a bit
differently about the type of network
architecture and how that onboarding
happens as well from the availability
standpoint there is not a decentralized
option for people at all today in web
browsers period like the gate the
initial step there is always going to be
centralized so how can we take advantage
of that centralization and use it as a
wedge to get in there I think is exactly
the right the right approach and the way
to think about it and having a embed a
language like the way you just described
it Jacob I think is really helpful for
understanding how we make those
decisions and be able to talk about wyck
that spectrum of said the thing about
centralized and essentially as a
spectrum not as a binary so and I'm
totally plus one on thinking about
things that way and really centering
this idea of bundles is being very user
centered and how we understand what
developer needs are which is plus one on
that too
awesome so all right what improvements
can we make this year I make that at
least and I'll go briefly over this list
I like making lists
so yep just like I mentioned we probably
the low hanging fruit is like at least
saving for later use all the peers we've
discovered it maybe and probably we
should also like it might be like
generic thing for the p2p but like like
tracking peers who are like always
available like over like days or like
for sometime and assigning some wage to
them conflicting web browser context is
actually it will like give like much
more like you could like visibly see
stuff happening faster than like in
going or other context mainly like the
cost of establishing connections so that
that's like the first thing then there's
like huge epic about sun setting start
protocols which is sort of like the the
problem is like to sunset stuff we would
have to have like existing solution that
replaces it and that's working progress
that's my understanding so I just copied
roadmap I extracted the road map from
the issue here but basically my
understanding of the high-level plan for
sunset excel protocols is that like we
got the random OOP like protocol specs
out I think we got like initial
implementation but it's not actually
like that test that our users used so
probably that's literally the first
thing is see what they're like
documented start you may be using it in
our internal projects may be active his
companion may be note he used in brave
places like that where we like got
understanding how stuff behaves right
now and then when we are like happy with
this solution like deprecated star at
least like from the default
configuration I believe like the star
will always be there as an option for
people because some people will just
like prefer that that would be like
thing for the use cases but like
switching the default from like
hard-coded servers to the maybe run
devil and similarly for the web RTC star
switch switching like that centralized
one to the one wonders choosing the
secretary like I'm not sure like Jacob
do you have like any thoughts or
stronger opinions on this roadmap is it
like overall the good direction yeah so
I think I want to re reevaluate this
roadmap as part of this year like I said
I think star some version of star
protocols will probably exist for quite
a while but I think there are various
solutions that we can look at to improve
connectivity and the biggest thing here
I see is really like discovering peers
who have pertinent who have content that
I care about whether that's like
application developers being able to
connect just their applications and they
don't care about the public network or
its nodes wanting to join the public
network and then trying to find notes
that they care about on the network and
so I think there is a myriad of things
that we can look at doing to
decentralize that like having actually
like a peer exchange protocol where we
can instead of leveraging the star
servers we can actually once we connect
one another whether that's using
rendezvous or some other mechanism of
finding those peers as then I can then
exchange with the peer I connect to I
can exchange the peers that I have with
them so that they can then get a list to
like hydrate their peer store
and then persist that and then when they
come online and reconnect somebody else
right we can just continue to just share
those peers you're on so I think one of
the things that I wanted to do is kind
of take the idea behind decommissioning
or like Sun setting the start protocols
and really focus on like what are we
trying to achieve in terms of like
connectivity and like finding peers that
we care about and then create like a
list of options like somewhat
thought-out options so that we can then
go through and like which of these or
multiples of these are going to be the
best for what we need so that we can
actually create like a work plan for for
getting those things done
I I know that like the new I'm not sure
if it's shaped like the new IDF SI your
website was the what the key like
elemental feature was sort of like a set
of questions what what what do you do
like what do you want to achieve and
based on those questions different like
ideas implementations or like ways of
using it or deploying it were presented
until we probably meet something like
that for the browser context both for
like just like if I sent a sleepy to be
depending because like people will
create apps and some people will just
like I said looks like they will
probably want to run their own
bootstraps probably there they will be
hiring their own like what some sort of
like a centralized signaling server but
like so those options still be viable I
think we just need to ensure stuff does
not break when like a single signaling
server goes away and clearly document
what are the options what are trade-offs
and what I like and emphasize that you
can like use multiple ways like multiple
discovery all the like the modularity of
both like J's ipfs ability to be I feel
is often like skipped our not present in
in Docs and people are not aware that
it's not like they need to choose they
can back
just multiple discovery matters and
stuff like that so I I had a section
with like question marks regarding like
improving star situation before sunset
engage so I feel like you mentioned the
web RTC like switching to web RTC as a
default like in the default
configuration would be like part of that
and there's a separate topic of
replacing WebSocket star with this new
Stardust protocol the problem is like a
new protocol well yeah so it's it's been
around in the Stardust was it was also
running on it was running ingest ipfs I
believe in check or at least a
preliminary version of it
the advantage is like we don't have to
like leverage socket IO and it does kind
of like a pure data exchange so it is an
option for like replacing WebSocket star
at least in the interim because web
sockets are was like the socket IO stuff
is just a nightmare to refactor back but
I think it's it's one of those things
it's like a stopgap right of like until
we get like the rendezvous server chilly
get like WebRTC distributed signaling
over relays things like that um where
any node could be a a signaling server
that like we should have some stop yep
in place and so that was like hey if we
get started in place that's another
option that people can use I'm in
addition to WebRTC star until we get
these other things so nourished yeah it
sounds viable I was like looking what
would need to happen on our like
infracells
want to make a switch and acting like
this which you mentioned that like
switching the default on the bundle
distribution to like WebRTC star at the
same time we could but
move the WebSocket styles button switch
like either documentation or yeah
probably if we no longer like Ranas
startup by default like switch the
documentation and point to startup the
thing is that I start does require
separate set of servers those slack
signalling servers would be like yeah
like totally new one so if we like
create probably like if we create set
for web RTC star I think it's running I
think we have four yeah so we have a
purchasing star it needs to be
redeployed it's like I pretty sure it's
like 500 shooting right now so we need
to improve our infrared at soon like in
the next weeks and then we have so we
have one WebRTC star server we actually
have three WebSocket star servers but we
only ever point to one right now so one
of the thoughts is to like leverage the
other two that we're not pointing at and
then also move those over to WebRTC and
then have three running right because
like we do have historical issues of
only being able to open so many whoever
CC star so if we can get like hey we
have three servers that are running then
we can also make sure that if one of
them goes down that we still have the
other two until we can get them all back
online
yep definitely we need more than one
assume only is doing like redoing infra
and provisioning of reload / delegate
nodes so probably like those star ones
will be next in queue
you
yeah I think we've mentioned improving
the UX of running your own but basically
something noted here is like maybe
encouraging people to rather or like
like I believe like language is
important and I'm not sure if like
federated services is a good branding
for this but basically going away from
centralized services so like making
easier for people to run their stuff
making it probably just running one
thing instead of like running for things
and I think the key one is like setting
up bootstrap node which is capable of
listening on WebSockets that's something
we like without this everyone will be
using the default ones and it's probably
better for everyone if we improve this
I talked with Steven about the idea of
adding support for TLS to go ipfs but
specifically not for HTTP gateway
because that's like a kind of forms we
don't want to open yet but just for just
for WebSockets see if we like maybe we
would be able to create some sort of
like a configuration when you just set
one flag let's provide a hostname or
something and like go ITF s would
automatically get served for your domain
that's just like an initial job that you
should just of initial idea that we
maybe we could improve that by providing
native support for like TLS on what of
on WebSockets in places like go ITF S&J
CTFs but that would have to be scoped
just to that one transport yeah I think
should go
there's a team that's been trying to
work on like they need this because
they're like they're taking gold let p2p
and they're compiling it to webassembly
and then using basically that same thing
of like communicating over WebSockets
but they're having the problem this this
exact problem of the WebSocket transport
in Golub btp doesn't support WSS and so
in they're having a problem that they
originally wanted it to be decentralized
but there you have the whole issue with
needing to use a certificate authority
because you have to get certificates and
that whole nightmare of well it has to
be specific domains or can you do
wildcard domains and yeah it's it's fun
it's a person working on subdomain
gateways which if you want to have HCBS
you also need to work on certificate I'm
deeply aware of the problem space yeah I
feel like it's probably like the
probably realistic way of tackling those
issues would be be more pragmatic than
just like going at foot full force with
some settings style protocols because
that may take time so like what would be
the first stage we would if we have like
the first milestone that would be
probably after like there factors are
done
switching route to web RTC star right as
the default that would be the first
thing for this year yeah so and that is
like it's being it's been added to the
JSI PFS refactor branch like it's
already in there for the browser the big
thing that we need to tackle is is
getting the signaling servers up so that
we can properly configure this
hmm yeah I'm not sure if I'm not like
saying garbage right now but I don't
think we have access to web RTC API from
whoop service workers or do it I don't
think we do I'm not sure
so assuming I'm right we would still
like that
switching to start that probably would
be necessary anyway because if someone
wants to run like Jess ipfs in Service
Worker if there are like brief enough
they would not be able to use the web
RTC and that means they would need like
WebSocket based one because you keep you
can establish WebSockets WebSocket
connection but I'm pretty sure I
remember there were maybe not all
browser vendors but it was not Universal
either Firefox or Chrome did not allow
for web web RTC I think there is this
like open ticket I did was chromium
about like allowing data channel
connections from serviceworker
could not when service workers was
created the web RTC was only used for
audio video so it was like I that does
not make sense so let's just block it
and now we don't have access to web RTC
I believe in some vendors sorry for
digression just like yeah and so the
starters refactor is happening
Bosco's working on that but he's he's
out for I think another a week apologies
I think I dropped for like a few seconds
you
and I think Jacob Justin Vasco still out
but it that son of spread Matt is that
this quarter yeah
so he was working on that because we
were originally trying to get it to
route get it out around the time that
the refactor goes out so I think it'll
just come out probably a couple weeks
later
you
that's on soundtrack upon yeah maybe mid
mid February did we miss anything
probably I added another item to the
agenda at the bottom after subdomain
gateway all right take up duel until
like I done anything or no sleeping on
this yeah no this is this is helpful so
ultimately what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna take all the things that we talked
about here and then start putting
together a more formal roadmap of the
things that we want to tackle and then
share that out so that we can start
iterating that and then make sure that
we're prioritizing we were teasing
heisting things appropriately I became
ago developer this week so I'll probably
yeah so I'll probably take unless
someone is those issues from me all
those like all the problems of missing
pieces for people to easily run their
own like bootstrap errors and stuff like
that basically
I won't look just go I TFS or Jessica
TFS to be enough like you don't need to
in select any additional stuff you
probably like get us to the point where
we you you may need to like enable some
flags but you don't need to like be
installer anything additional to remove
like the friction and like cognitive
overhead for people who want to like
round around inside otherwise people
will just say alright I don't have time
for like reading this setting this up I
would just use those default unless they
break then I would start reading this so
yeah okay okay can you so everyone asked
for this work can you can you summarize
that that outcome so where we're gonna
be where you want like the target you
want to hit at the end of the quarter so
we have an understanding kind of what
the what the objective is from a
developer experience template for people
that are wanting to use Jess ipfs in
this context what it was changed is the
goal going to be for example this is
zero config is the goal going to be
better connectivity with the existing
config but just it's summary to be able
to understand where we're getting at in
this in this broader context for this
quarters work that we can use as the OKR
for the browsers and connectivity work
the ecosystem group would be super
helpful we want to definitely before
team week have that lockdown oh yeah
yeah III can flesh it out basically I
need to like think about like the call
like the current scope what people need
to do like go ipfs and then nginx and
what they need to set up in nginx and
see what we are liquid-liquid
realistically can like move to go idea
first configuration wise yep totally
some time in gateways corner maybe let's
let's let's do this alright so it's very
quick I
we can go developer this week and picked
up TR we subdomain gateways and the
thing I wanted to get to work was
basically like the Gateway on localhost
and I got it to the point where I was
able to like load Wikipedia from like
that IDF at localhost domain so CID is
in the main it loads and all the paths
the Wikipedia is a very good test case
cuz there's like assets relative paths
shut the directory so if anything breaks
it will break on Wikipedia and cool
stuff is that like we not only got those
Lexi IDs we also got like IP NS
namespace and it works the same as IP NS
path namespace so if someone puts domain
name here we will resolve the Annette
link and load content addressing path
from that path that means this is what
we needed for like ideas companion to
redirect from Wikipedia ipfs the pork to
your local note without breaking your
origin isolation so this is a cool
example because like this is a regular
website you even get the human readable
name here same ways like our dog's
website and what's cool is that the
existing integration with DNS guys also
works with this so we got those eth
domains loading from localhost gateway
which is pretty pretty critical
so those goods will land at some point
you'll to figured out some some things
around the configuration I want to like
add some keys which are not there trying
to add them and wire down them up and
also need to select summary factors to
like shuffle stuff around cause like in
someone if someone is running the DNS
link website and a gateway on the same
domain name we want to prioritize
content paths probably just just to like
remove at edge cases so a good example
is like I TFSI oh it's a path based
gateway but also a regular website which
is backed by DNS link so what happens is
that the NSF website has like ipfs
subdirectory should we open that from
the DNS link or should we open that from
the Gateway like educators like that but
I believe that's it for this update
thank you nice that's that's fantastic
news is this targeting 0.5 what if s
yeah yeah that should land with by the
end of I think 0.5 is plant by the end
of the quarter and this will be included
I also but for
it's not on the agenda but I backported
some web UI power patches which which
will land sooner it will those web UI
patches will land in 404 23 I believe
before 0.5 do you know is there quite we
were drawing a line in the sand like a
future phrase on what web UI changes
will be included what web UI version
will be included with professor phone 5
I believe I believe it's still open
historically it was just like when the
new at you I was released we just ap art
has changed to go ipfs now that we got
like end-to-end test suit it's even like
easier to just bump it that's that's
fantastic yeah because we can do that
little with a knowledge and at least the
main the main workflow didn't break
thank you like oh I forgot one more
thing I promise it was the brief one
more thing I'm not sure how sane or
insane this is but just a shower idea I
had that's like a header called clear
side data and he if a server returns
that header
it forces user agent to remove all
cookies or all storage for specific
origin and this sort of may be a way for
us to incentivize people for people who
want to use ipfs for like the dynamic
website or by the dynamic dynamic web
apps which use web api is tied to origin
to incentivize those people to people to
use their own domain or your subdomain
gateways basically by purging cookies
and storage every time they load
anything from path based gateway that
way the path gates base path base
gateway would be still
useful for like assets like images and
like static websites but you would not
be able to shoot yourself in the foot by
like relying on original elation it
probably is something we will think
about when like subdomains land in
stable go IPO passengers idea first but
I thought I mention it here in case it's
a bad idea it's a bad idea please
comment on this issue all right next one
I believe
Deitrick brave roadmap yeah so one of
the things that just came up we've
talked a lot about like goals that we
have when we want to get to with with
brave for context we still have an
incoming grant application where Ranger
Bob will be working on brave to brave
DNS St local discovery so we can
actually start working on for to Braves
with embedded nodes on the same local
subnet they'll be able to interoperate
music he must communicate directly even
if they're not connecting the internet
super powerful demonstration of just how
important actually having full node
native immigration in the browser as and
and hopefully that'll start to happen
this quarter but the activist grant
situation is still still evolving and
just really getting started so we're
working our way through that but there's
a couple of other major bits that we've
talked about for brave support and this
came up in a conversation but it's
really nice it's so nice that Brendan is
so active on Twitter and retweet stuff
all the time like when you talk about
the things that you want to do that
maybe you're not sure if you can yet so
I didn't commit our roadmap publicly I
did talk about some things that we know
we want to do so there's a few things
there like like like emptiness
implementation I think that the brave
community is really tolerant of hard
experimenting hard and deep in in this
area and it's really something that we
should be we should take advantage of as
much as possible so the fact that we can
actually get a local you know node
that's in browser because any external
daemon to be installed no I professed
required and understanding kind of the
limits of what we can do in that space
from an experimentation standpoint I
think it's gonna be really powerful and
can really galvanize that community
around thinking about more thinking more
broadly about what they can do when
things like ipfs are actually just
running locally available in some form
to web applications I think also that's
a place where we have an opportunity to
explore native protocol handler and
desktop experiences so in the Opera
implementation is going to give us a
native protocol handler but a
behind-the-scenes HTTP gateway
experience and here we have the
opportunity to be able to have knit we
need a protocol handler combined with
the local node and that's something that
we have we still have to figure out
standard but we have to figure out
things like you know what is the actual
capability capability
you know what garden they're walled
garden whatever we want to put walls
from a security model standpoint how
does that security model align with the
existing HP security model doing things
to say like if something's loaded in the
in the ipfs near to protocol do we just
like from the from the start it just be
like turn off all cookies yes or no like
we have the opportunity to be able to
dictate how this security model works
and I you know I spill on through the
through the ancient through the ancient
scrolls of github and there's the many
conversations about this but no real
decisions kind of around what this world
actually looks like and and that's
something that in order to be able to
move forward and and more seriously with
world standards bodies and with browser
integrations we need to be able to have
a very clear and cohesive approach or at
least understanding of what the relevant
concerns are how how they relate to the
concerns that we have in the web
security model today especially around
privacy and surveillance and that's
something that we we kind of don't have
written up in a cohesive way and a lot
of people have experienced here a lot of
thoughts it's kind of some of the
architectural decisions around my
professors core as a protocol itself but
I profess in any web application context
has all this other stuff layered on top
of it and different concerns that we
need to be able to communicate really
clearly about what our stance is and
what our recommendations are for for
people
integrating this into the browser if you
want that happen so there's there's a
there's a lot to to unpack there ingest
in the native protocol handler list of
things that that little just showed it
in that tweet where I was like these are
top of mind things that we need to at
the very least figure out this year and
n 2020 with a with a security model and
a privacy model at an application model
for what IP FS in the browser looks like
and I think those are three very
distinct things so I'd love to see us
and then at a minimum and have an idea
like broad strokes what we want for for
for a brave and as an exemplar of
browser and integrations for this year
but I think really the end goal for the
year what I would like to see is us
having a really solid understanding of
those three things what the with a
security model Fred for some browsers is
with a privacy model for I profess some
browsers is and then with it what does
things mean in the context of an
application model you know the web
application model is this HTTP what
delivering assets that are ultimately
rendered like HTML and JavaScript and
CSS that's the application model is the
combination of that network transport
the key features the capabilities of the
network transport combined with this
rendering context this is what features
does the browser give to the JavaScript
that's actually being executed what does
it let it do what it wears to have
dependencies on user interaction which
is a really key part of evaluating
feature capabilities in the context of
the security model so we need to get
those things in place and we will have a
realistic and mature conversation with
standards by these browser vendors so
that I think it's a really really
important thing that we can do this year
to set us up for for integration
smoother and helping helping make those
decisions easier for browser vendors and
may this is probably
we should all sit down since we'll be a
team week together and maybe just lock a
few hours in to at least identify the
things that we want where we want to be
at the end of the year yep and it's like
the native protocol
it just sounds easy but we flip the web
which we experimented in 2018 a with
Mozilla we've identified there like so
many unknown like now those are known
unknowns but like there's no spec about
like cross protocol requests or like J's
execution absolutely not it's like Wild
West
no one has know an idea and it's
interesting cause it's like repeat like
history repeating itself
when HTTP was added similar questions
were raised like how cross protocol
requests should work it was much easier
back then because like HTTP was just
HTTP with encryption here we got like
totally different like Samanta protocol
semantics or like security guarantees so
yeah like a lot a lot of the threats a
lot of the threats in the existing model
are pushed actually out a layer down
into network network transport concerns
so it's actually like it almost more
tightly couples to security privacy
models with the network transport layer
as opposed to the application love there
yep I I believe like we we should have a
separate call regarding like gray blog
posts I don't think I scheduled tomorrow
but we may maybe just I eat yeah do I
have that my list to schedule but
between annual performance review stuff
this week and all the reorg I think I'm
just gonna have to push that to next
week and then we could just spend an
hour hacking on on a brave blog post
yeah all right
I'll pray I create that promise
authoring outline for this all right now
we are at the place where there's
ellipsis at the end of our agenda so
that may mean that we are at the end of
the agenda are we at the end of the
agenda
inclusion is anything
time I did Peter is on the call
yes hello guys I just dealt into this
son while I have been working on
something in parallel so yeah just just
want to see what this meeting is is like
it was the name is GUI browsers and now
it's GUI browsers and connectivity we
keep adding adding stuff and it remains
1 hours so now we we need to like bump
up the tempo yeah well I mean I mean so
far so good
I kinda because there is lot of server
time just keep trying over and over and
I wait in the mean time so if you were
to just see you know what other teams
are doing kind of things so I'm just
walking around Academy thanks for
joining
awesome take up and anything we made I
don't think so for a long time
perfect how was it for you oh it was
good I'm excited to do more of these get
a road map together and sir knocking it
out yeah think about timing maybe when
Vasco is part because we it's right now
it's just like me and Dietrich hack was
dialing but now he hits on that has gone
we can like discuss this I think I'll
stop recording now so sorry for not be
recording before but for anyone watching
bye